[Music]
14 armed forces intelligence with the
approach of the 20th century both the
Army and the Navy took steps to formally
establish intelligence institutions
within their organizations quote until
after the u.s. Civil War the Navy's
intelligence efforts and requirements
were essentially those within the
capacity of a ship's commanding officer
to conduct and use then technical
developments stimulated not only by the
civil war in the United States but also
by the Crimean War and the
franco-prussian war in Europe resulted
in improved medals and powder which in
turn led to the progressive development
of larger caliber built-up rifled
ordnance firing elongated missiles the
German development of the sliding wedge
breech block made muzzleloading obsolete
and permitted fixed gun mounts and more
accurate aiming armor progressed from
wood to iron to steel recognizing the
need for keeping in touch with such
progress in foreign navies the Secretary
of the Navy on 23rd of March 1882 signed
general ordered 2/9 to establishing the
office of intelligence in the Bureau of
navigation quote to collect and record
such naval information as may be useful
to the department in wartime as well as
in peace end quote
the Navy Department library was combined
with the office of intelligence naval
attache posts were set up in London in
1882 in Paris in 1885 and in Rome in
1888 the attache in Paris was also
accredited to Berlin and st. Petersburg
later Petrograd then Leningrad and the
anti-shah at Rome included Austria in
his area of accreditation and quote
footnote WH Packard a briefing on naval
intelligence
All Hands number five nine one April
1966 and footnote as constant
the Office of Naval Intelligence
collected and disseminated largely
technical information about naval
affairs undoubtedly some amount of
political information was garnered
through the anti Shea's system managed
by the office
it would appear however that until World
War one the unit which was attached to
the newly created office of the Chief of
Naval Operations in 1915 concerned
itself largely with technical matters
some of these topics of concern to the
office are reflected in the titles of
its general information series of
publications footnote these include the
following US Navy Department Bureau of
navigation Office of Naval Intelligence
observations upon the Korean Coast
Japanese Korean ports and Siberia made
during a journey from the Asiatic
station to the United States through
Siberia and Europe by Lieutenant BH
Buckingham instance George seafolk and
Walter MacLean Washington US Government
Printing Office 1883 163 pages report on
the exhibits at the Crystal Palace
electrical exhibition 1882 by ensign
Frank J Sprague Washington US government
print off Asst 1883 169 pages examples
conclusions and Maxim's of modern naval
tactics by Commander William Bainbridge
Hoff Washington US government print
office 1884 149 pages papers on naval
operations during the year ending July
1885 Washington US government print
office 1885 135 pages papers on
squadrons of evolutions the recent
development of naval materiel Washington
US government print office 1886 265
pages recent naval progress Washington
US government print off Asst 1887 346
pages
Naval Reserves training and material
Washington US government print office
1888 433 pages naval mobilization and
improvement in material Washington US
government print off Asst 1889 485 pages
a year's naval progress Washington US
government print off Asst 1890 423 pages
Office of Naval Intelligence the year's
naval progress Washington US government
print Office 1891 491 pages notes on the
years naval progress Washington US
government print office 1892 366 pages
the International Columbian naval
rendezvous and review of 1893 and naval
maneuvers of 1892 Washington US
Government Printing Office 1893 238
pages notes on the years naval progress
Washington US government print off US
1894 458 pages the series was continued
until at least 1902 under the title
notes on the year's naval progress 1
volume for each year 1895 through 1902
another series of four reports were
produced during this same period 1888
through 1900 under the title : docking
and repairing facilities of the ports of
the world another frequent issuance was
a pamphlet updated at various times
entitled information concerning some of
the principal navies of the world which
was apparently created for public
distribution one special report was
produced as a consequence of the
spanish-american war which was in the
format of the general information series
but captioned war notes and entitled US
Navy Department Office of Naval
Intelligence notes on the
spanish-american war Washington US
government print off Asst 1899
other specialized studies may have been
produced for publication during the
period in addition to these documents
indicated here which are based upon
holdings of the Library of Congress in
footnote from its inception until June
1899 the office had no authorization for
clerical employees and relied upon
detailees from other bureaus for staff
the advent of the spanish-american war
not only prompted an authorization for
clerks but also triggered an expansion
of the anti a system officers were
assigned to Tokyo 1895 Madrid 1897
Caracas 1903 Buenos Aires 1910 and The
Hague 1911 commenting on the evolution
of the Navy's intelligence unit visa vie
the emergence of the Army's counterpart
structure one authority himself a former
director of the Office of Naval
Intelligence has said quote it is well
to recognize that the military
information division has much more
complex duties not only in keeping track
of enemy activities within our own
borders and foiling them but in
expanding and coordinating all the
military resources of the country the
Navy is always ready for war or on a
tentative war footing with some trained
reserves to draw upon it is a
comparatively simple matter to pass from
a peace to a war footing intensive
target practice torpedo exercises mine
laying exercises and maneuvers keep the
personnel deeply interested through the
competitive spirit it is the duty of the
Navy to hold the enemy in check while
the army mobilizes and deploys curiously
enough naval strategy may be planned in
time of peace by building stations
acquiring bases and studying all the
elements of the possible enemy's
strategy but an army cannot acquire
supply bases or fortified stations in
the same way in time of peace a navy is
not efficient unless it is always on a
tentative war footing for when war comes
you cannot improvise a navy we have
never done anything else than improvise
an army
end quote footnote US Navy department
division of operations the history and
aims of the Office of Naval Intelligence
by Rear Admiral ap Niblick Washington US
government print off Asst 1920 page 11
copies of this study bear the marking
not for publication indicating limited
distribution the copy utilized in this
study was supplied by the National
Archives & Records Service in footnote
the War Department inaugurated its
permanent intelligence institution three
years after the Navy established the
Office of Naval Intelligence in 1885 the
Secretary of War had asked the adjutant
general for information on the Armed
Forces of a certain power it may have
been Russia
against whom Germany's Bismarck was busy
aligning allies to effect a balance of
power to the secretary surprise he
learned that no such information was
readily available in Washington
furthermore no government agency existed
for collecting and compiling such
information from this frustration was
born what would become the military
information division of the Adjutant
General's Office the grandiose name did
not originally apply to the one officer
and clerk detailed to quote gather and
file information concerning the military
organizations of foreign countries in
which for one reason or another the
United States might become interested in
quote four years later the military
attache system was authorized by
Congress it has functioned ever since
although sometimes with hardly more than
a flicker overtly to gather and forward
to the War Department military
information on the countries to which
anti-phase were assigned it became a
function of the military information
division to select ant assays to pass
them their instructions from the War
Department and to receive their reports
for the army end quote
the military information division
remains small and went unnoticed by the
Army's officer corps
it's an teshe system almost non-existent
on the eve of the spanish-american war
nevertheless however minut the United
States had a permanent intelligence
structure when once again faced with the
prospect of hostilities in 1898
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you